# CS-350-14760-M01-Emerging-Sys-Arch-Tech
Project Summary
The TI CC3220 development board was used in the process of constructing a prototype of a smart thermostat for participation in this project. The objective was to design a thermostat that is capable of reading the temperature of the room by means of a TMP006 sensor, controlling the heating temperature by means of an LED indication, and enabling users to alter the temperature that has been set by means of buttons. The prototype also replicates the process of transferring temperature data to a server via the use of UART. During the course of the project, the goal was to show the fundamental capabilities of the thermostat and to provide the groundwork for future cloud-connected versions.
Achievements
The project was able to effectively implement all of the essential capabilities, including reading the temperature from the TMP006 sensor using I2C, controlling the heating indication with an LED through GPIO, and altering the temperature with GPIO interrupts from buttons. It adhered to coding best practices such as clear formatting, comments, and modular design, which enabled the code to be well-organized and well-organized. Through the successful simulation of data transfer to a server, the prototype demonstrated the capability to interact with systems that are external to the system.
Areas for Improvement
Despite the fact that the project was successful in accomplishing its objectives, there are still certain areas that may be improved. In order to guarantee the prototype's dependability in a variety of circumstances, it would be beneficial to include improved error handling and debugging tools. In addition, the code might be optimized for power efficiency, and the advanced features of the TI CC3220, like as its integrated Wi-Fi capabilities, could be explored in order to give further functionality and efficiency.
Tools and Resources
A variety of peripherals, including the TI CC3220 development board, the TMP006 temperature sensor, and different peripherals for GPIO and UART communication were used by me for this project. A significant amount of time was spent using the development tools and documentation provided by TI, which included the datasheets for the CC3220 and TMP006. A significant contribution to the development process was made by the use of resources such as embedded systems development tutorials and programming guidelines for the ARM Cortex-M4 processor.
Transferable Skills
Embedded system design, interfacing with sensors and peripherals, and the use of communication protocols such as I2C and UART are some of the skills that may be acquired by participation in this project. It is quite easy to apply these abilities to other projects that include microcontrollers and Internet of Things devices with great success. In addition, having prior expertise with code modularization and best practices would be beneficial for future education as well as career growth.
